For this project I used the data set from the coffe shop sales excel sheet. I decided to name this Mug Life. this data covers all transactions conducted in 3 different location throughout New York City from January to June of 2023. The data consists of 149,116 transactions that I used to analyze with the help of python and pandas. My python code started off with import pandas as pd followed by pd.read_excel(coffee shop sales.xlsx). After the data was loaded I then proceeded to organize and calculate a couple metrics including sales, revenue, store performance and also the busiest hours of the day for each store. 
Another thing that I looked into was the combined sales of the coffee and bakery items. After filtering the product_category column of the data for 'coffee' and 'bakery' I got the following results. The estimated revenue for these two types of products is $352,309. Now this isn't the entire revenue for the entire business as there are other categories that the shop sells such as tea, chocoloate and coffee beans which are not included in this calculation. 
For the hourly revenue by product and store I added a column for revenue to the existing data by multiplying transaction_qty by unit_price. After that I used the groupby function to get the results of the revenues for the different categories such as product, store and hour. For the different categories the highest revenue was for Sustainably Grown Organic Lg for $21,151.75. This product should always be in stock. Perhaps even highlighting this product in the menu to make it more noticeable. As in my family’s pizzeria, if there is one product that makes a lot of money then perhaps that product should be more noticeable to the customer.
In my analysis its revealed that 10am generated the highest amount of revenue with $88,673 followed by a steady decline until 8pm which is when the shop closes and closed at a lowest level of revenue of $2,936. So this would prompt me to add more employees during the 10am peak hours so that orders are moving in a timely manner, whereas 8pm should have fewer employees due their being fewer sales and it would be adding to unnecessary labor costs.
When comparing the sales at the 3 stores, the Hells Kitchen location had the highest sales at $236,511 followed by Astoria at $232,244 and Lower Manhattan at $230,057. It would be in the best interest to explore and dive deeper into the stores with the highest sales to see if you can implement it into other locations. It would also be worht while to see which days of the week the store is the bui=siest, what products are purchased togther and if there are certain products that are more popular at specific locations. This information would be crucial in helping the coffe shop make the right decisions in terms of inventory or staffing.  